bug 0001: Dual Marathon gimmick

The keys control both a platform game (in the top window) and a
tetromino stacking game (in the bottom window).  If you die on
either window, you lose.


bug 0002: Customizable top out behavior
Parity: Tetris (NES), freepuzzlearena

A rule can dictate that "top out" occurs when the following happens:
* Overlap or lock out: Entry overlapping blocks, or lock entirely
  above ceiling (current behavior)
* Partial lock out: Lock with any block above ceiling
* Garbage out: Entry with any block above ceiling
* Loose block out: Lock overlapping blocks; block can be shifted
  out of the way in some cases (like Tetris for NES)


bug 0003: Mode 7 style blitter for PC
Platform: PC
Parity: TOD

Extend blitField(LJView *) to scale and rotate the field as it's
being copied to the screen.


bug 0004: Mode 7 style blitter for GBA and DS
Platform: GBA

Extend blitField(LJView *) to calculate scaling and rotation factors
for each scanline, and extend other functions to start DMA.


bug 0005: Port Lockjaw: The Overdose (TOD)
Requires: 0002, 0003, 0004
Parity: TOD

TOD used Carbon Engine.  I want to migrate away from Carbon Engine.


bug 0006: Ridin' Spinners
Requires: 0003, 0004
SRS and Infinity are turned on.  If you abuse lock delay, or you make
a "spin triple" twist, the screen begins to spin, and the music
changes to a cover of "Ridin' Spinners" by Three 6 Mafia.


bug 0007: Improve Items gimmick
Requires: 0008
Votes: Caithness
Parity: Tetris DS

Give only one item at a time in the early stages.


bug 0008: Prerotated next queue
Parity: Tetris DS

Store the orientation of each piece in the next queue.


bug 0009: TDS 4-player worldwide simulation
Parity: Tetris DS

3/4 of the time you start it, it will play annoying music for
two minutes, give an 86420 error, and quit. The rest of the
time, it will play annoying music for between 15 seconds and
two minutes and then switch to Items gimmick.


bug 0010: Colored blocks
Parity: freepuzzlearena

In active, hold, and next, have each block store its color.


bug 0011: H&R Blocks scoring method
Parity: freepuzzlearena

First spotted in freepuzzlearena Tetanus.  Each piece is either
entirely dark or entirely light.  A line of all dark or all light
scores as 2 lines.  Score for n lines with one piece is n*(n+1)*50.


bug 0012: Two physical keys per vkey
Platform: PC

Allow the player to set more than one key that operates a given,
game function, like StepMania does.


bug 0013: Two-player mode
Parity: freepuzzlearena

Allow two players to play at once, and allow garbage to be sent back
and forth.


bug 0014: Store and display assertion text

Lockjaw Engine has ljassert().  If an assertion fails, have some way
for front-ends to retrieve the text.


bug 0015: Rotation system should be array of structs

A single struct should describe all aspects of a rotation system.
The descriptions in wktables.c should be an array of structs, not
struct of arrays.  While you're at it, extend the kick tables
from 5 to 8 positions.


bug 0016: Rotation system editor
Platform: PC
Requires: 0015
Votes: Needle, DIGITAL, (RA) Red Star, jujube, fnord

Before developing Lockjaw Engine, I described Wall Kick Explorer, an
editor for rotation systems.  Make this.
* initial shift and orientation of each piece
* kick tables for +90deg and +270deg

<tepples>
0.44 inverts rotation systems into a format that a loader might be
able to produce.


bug 0017: Adjustable window size
Votes: Bloodstar
Resolution: Fixed in 0.42

The skin should control the screen resolution or the size of the
window.  This would make camstudio recording on older PCs feasible.


bug 0018: Store keypress count in .ljm

Replays should store the number of keypresses, so that Baboo! result
screens are correct.


bug 0019: Start recording .ljm only during ARE

It would probably simplify the code to start a replay only during
entry delay.  This would also allow playback to become slightly
more resilient to game engine changes, as the viewer would at least
be able to view block placements.


bug 0020: Option for fractional row kick
Parity: Tetris DX

Right now, a floor kick will move a piece by the minimal amount
needed to place a block in the correct row.  This means downward
kicks move to the top of the row, and upward kicks move to the bottom
and immediately start lock delay.  Other games don't do this.
To simulate Tetris DX properly, we need a new option:

Fractional floor kick
  Unchanged
> Minimal move (current behavior)
  Move to top (Tetris DX behavior)


bug 0021: Double buffer entire screen
Platform: PC
Votes: 4matsy

On some video cards, the score flashes.  Double buffering the entire
screen, not just the well, would fix this.


bug 0022: Automatic exit on Vista
Platform: PC
Resolution: Fixed in 0.42

One machine running Windows Vista had Esc perform an immediate exit
rather than a pause > exit.

<tepples>
Might it have been caused by vsync() returning immediately?
If so, 0.42 fixes that.


bug 0023: Draw internal preview without clipping to well edge
Requires: 0020
Votes: 4matsy

Internal preview should extend outside the well if the piece is close
enough to the wall.


bug 0024: Improve garbage options
Votes: Bloodstar, Lardarse
Parity: Tetris (NES)

Add option for garbage density, especially for B-type

Garbage density
  Half
  Two holes
> One hole

Add option for garbage randomness (1-100)


bug 0025: Internet play
Requires: 0013
Votes: Bloodstar
Parity: Tetris DS

Allow sending garbage over the Internet.


bug 0026: FreeType font support
Platform: PC
Votes: Bloodstar

Use TrueType fonts instead of bitmapped fonts.


bug 0027: AVI export
Platform: PC
Votes: Bloodstar
Parity: Tetris (NES) in emulation

FCE Ultra and Nestopia can convert a replay to an AVI.
Lockjaw should too.


bug 0028: Game_Music_Emu music support
Platform: PC
Votes: Bloodstar
Parity: Tetris (NES) in emulation

I'd like to play nsf/sid/spc music without having to
convert it to .ogg first.


bug 0029: Height-sensitive music
Platform: PC
Votes: Bloodstar
Parity: Tetris (NES), Tetris (GB)

Tetris DX changes the music when the stack surpasses a certain
height.  Lockjaw should too.


bug 0030: Music on GBA
Platform: GBA
Votes: Bloodstar
Parity: TOD

GBA has sound effects.  I'd like some sort of music too.  Pimpmobile?


bug 0031: Debrief on handhelds
Platform: GBA, DS
Votes: Bloodstar, zzo38computer
Resolution: Fixed in 0.43

PC has a result screen.  I want this on GBA and DS

<tepples>
Fixed in 0.42 for DS.  To get this onto the GBA, we'd have to
eliminate three lines of text from the result screen.

<tepples>
kesiev gave me a few ideas of how I could slim it down.  Fixing.


bug 0032: Baboo! should force infinite lock delay
Votes: caffeine

right now, Baboo! is defined by use of 0g.  it should be
infinite lock delay instead.

<tepples>
Why?  It would add an extra keystroke to Zangi-moves.


bug 0033: Move all skin-related files to a folder
Platform: PC
Votes: caffeine
Resolution: Fixed in 0.43

Skin-related files should be kept together in the folder "skin".


bug 0034: Configure console buttons
Platform: PC
Votes: caffeine, 4matsy
Parity: StepMania

Escape to pause, [ to record, ] to play should be configurable.

<tepples>
4matsy said that MenuUp, MenuDown, MenuLeft, MenuRight,
MenuStart, and MenuBack also being configurable might help.


bug 0035: skip ready go and game over animations
Votes: caffeine

I like to kill and restart games when I make one little mistake,
and startingAnimation and gameOverAnimation slow me down.
I want to skip them, even though each is less than 2 seconds.


bug 0036: Skip to mistakes
Platform: PC
Votes: caffeine

While watching a replay, I want to skip to a piece that increases
the number of holes or whose active time is greater than three
times the average.


bug 0037: Hide active times in results
Votes: caffeine

The Quadra-style "active time" statistics confuse me.  I want to
see stats based on wall time only.


bug 0038: Result time unit
Votes: caffeine

I'd like to control whether statistics are expressed per minute
or per second.

<tepples>
Why?  DDR is measured in beats per minute, and gasoline engine speed
is measured in revolutions per minute.


bug 0039: More garbage options
Votes: Caithness

I want more realistic garbage.

<tepples>
In what way?


bug 0040: Custom speed curves
Votes: Caithness, caffeine, Ezzelin, zzo38computer, DIGITAL, mushroom

Let the user modify speed curves: for example, user should be
able to make rhythm speed up slower

<tepples>
0.45 introduces a new speed curve format


bug 0041: Saved rule sets
Votes: Needle, kotetsu213, jujube, DIGITAL, Rich Nagel, Deets
Votes: Kukuunen
Parity: Tetris Worlds, Heboris

Let the user create sets of options that override the user's
current options, and replace the gimmick selection screen
with preset selection.

<tepples>
0.42 adds scenario support for the PC.  A scenario editor and
scenario support for handhelds will have to wait.


bug 0042: Release Lockjaw XLII
Requires: 0041

Lockjaw 0.42 won't be released until noticeable progress is made
on these issues.

<tepples>
As of Monday, January 28, 2008, scenario support is in, so Lockjaw
will be released the morning before the Super Bowl.


bug 0043: More rotation systems
Requires: 0016
Votes: herc

Once the rotation system editor is in place, create these:
* Flat-up SRS


bug 0044: Vanish zone
Platform: PC
Votes: DIGITAL

The skin should allow showing the vanish zone.


bug 0045: Handheld skin support
Platform: GBA
Votes: Dood77, matt_hatter83
Parity: TOD 

GBA and DS should have skins too.


bug 0046: Pussy 20G
Votes: herc, DIGITAL

Option for moving a piece up 1 cell when shifting it,
counting it as a floor kick.


bug 0047: Pentominoes
Votes: Dood77, jujube, colour_thief, Lardarse
Parity: Bombliss

Add the 5-block pieces.


bug 0048: Bastet randomizer
Votes: zzo38computer
Parity: Abandoned Blocks

In bastet, AI plays each possible next piece in each
possible position and gives one of the worst 3.


bug 0049: lj-contrib as skins
Platform: PC
Votes: Rich Nagel

lj-contrib was written before .skin files were done.


bug 0050: Next above shadow (faint)
Platform: PC
Votes: cdsboy

Draw next above shadow, but draw it semitransparent.


bug 0051: Separate keys for initial actions
Votes: DIGITAL

I like initial actions, but not ARE.  Can I get separate
keys to perform initial actions on the next piece before
this one locks down?


bug 0052: Speed graph in debrief
Platform: PC
Votes: Cubicz
Parity: StepMania

Screen 1 is results.  Screen 2 is settings.
Why not put a speed graph on screen 3?


bug 0053: High score table
Requires: 0041
Votes: Cubicz, Ezzelin, Rich Nagel, Kuukunen

For each ruleset, keep the highest scores achieved on that
ruleset.


bug 0054: Disable ljconn
Platform: PC
Votes: kotetsu213, Needle
Parity: Tetris The Grand Master, The New Tetris

The skin should be able to turn off ljconn for falling pieces
(as opposed to blocks in the stack).  That would improve
accuracy of TNT and TGM simulation.


bug 0055: Skin control for sound effects
Platform: PC
Votes: Cubicz, Needle
Parity: Lumines

Allow skins to specify a .dat file or set of .wav files used
for sound effects.


bug 0056: Bleep gimmick
Votes: Lardarse

Player must clear row 1, 2, 1, 3, 1, 4, 1, 5, 1, ..., 20, 1.


bug 0057: Bravo
Votes: Lardarse
Parity: Luminesweeper

Several other falling block games display "BRAVO!" or another similar
message when there are no blocks left in the well after a line clear,
and award lots of bonus points.  Detect and score for this situation.


bug 0058: Vs. Elite garbage
Votes: PetitPrince

you get 7 garbages after random(1,7) seconds, then random(3,5)
garbage every random (5,20) seconds


bug 0059: Wall kick control for IRS
Votes: jagorochi
Parity: TGM

In TGM, initial rotation does not perform kicks.
Change the IRS option:

Initial rotation 
  Off: do not IRS (current behavior)
  On, no kick: if collision, fail
> On: if collision, try wall kick (current behavior)

<tepples>
0.43 disallows IRS kick entirely, changing the current behavior
from "On" to "On, no kick", by adding a new argument to
doRotateLeft and doRotateRight.  The change to this option (search
for !isFirstFrame) could be used to implement this option.


bug 0060: Menu background
Platform: PC
Votes: lvankeulen, Kuukunen
Parity: Tetris (NES)

The skin should specify a background image to be drawn behind
the menu text.


bug 0061: Frame stepping
Platform: PC
Votes: jagorochi
Parity: Tetris (NES) in emulation

To check the event loop for off-by-one errors that affect
accuracy against other games, it would be useful to be able
to step the game engine forward by one frame at a time.


bug 0062: Replay stepping by piece
Platform: PC
Votes: Lardarse

Pause demo playback (with well still visible) with hold button;
advance to next lock with rotate button


bug 0063: Option for goal
Votes: Lardarse, caffeine, Rosti LFC, fnord, M.Bison

Separate goal and countdown code out of gimmicks into an option,
controlled by LJField::goalType.  Goals include none, lines,
level, score, time, and keys, which activate comparisons against
goalCount.  This would obsolete many gimmicks.


bug 0064: Fill in missing sound effects on handhelds
Platform: GBA, DS
Votes: Lardarse

These sounds are missing:
GBA: Ready, go, countdown
DS: Ready, go, lose, distinct countdown

<tepples>
0.42 adds "lose" on DS


bug 0065: Bombliss game mode
Requires: 0010
Votes: Joshua
Parity: Bombliss

When game mode is set to Bombliss, line clears no longer remove
lines from the field.  Instead, one block of each piece is
colored differently and explodes, removing blocks, when in a
line clear.


bug 0066: Dr. Mario clone
Requires: 0010
Votes: Lardarse
Parity: freepuzzlearena

You made Vitamins. Can you make domino rotation, color matching,
and floating garbage with fast DAS, IRS, and 20G?


bug 0067: Puyo clone
Requires: 0010
Votes: Lardarse
Parity: freepuzzlearena

You made a puyo clone in FPA. Can you port it to LJ?


bug 0068: Preload hold piece
Votes: Lardarse

Option to load a specific piece (such as I or T) into the hold box
at game start.


bug 0069: Bag with good start
Votes: Rosti LFC
Parity: Tetris The Grand Master ACE

Randomizer should always give a "preferred piece" (e.g. I, J, L, T)
first, like history does.


bug 0070: Small skins shouldn't hide the score
Votes: Rich Nagel
Platform: PC

Make wiki.skin (and other small-blkW skins) not hide the score


bug 0071: Preview at left
Votes: DIGITAL
Platform: PC

Skin should specify that the vertical preview ("Next at right")
can be moved to the left side of the playfield.


bug 0072: Volume for sfx
Votes: DIGITAL
Platform: PC

Skin should specify volume for sound effects, as it does for music.


bug 0073: Make PC use GBA options
Votes: jujube
Platform: PC
Resolution: Fixed in 0.43

Move non-GBA/DS specific code from gbaopt.c to options.c,
then take out everything in old_pc_options.c that isn't
load, save, or LJPCView related

<tepples>
0.42 takes some steps in this direction.


bug 0074: Macro editor
Votes: deepdorp

Make the actions performed by the macro vkeys editable.


bug 0075: Pattern randomizer
Votes: Rich Nagel

Allow the player to define a piece sequence, such as the Sega
power-on pattern, and deal that.  It could replace iCheat(tm).


bug 0076: Skin should vary per section
Votes: Needle, Rich Nagel, DIGITAL
Parity: freepuzzlearena, Luminesweeper

For speed curves that have sections, it should be possible for a
skin to specify a background image and music for each section.

<Rich Nagel>
Option to load all skin files before the game starts, so as not to
make an unpredictable ARE at the start of a section.


bug 0077: Define conditions that trigger initial drop
Votes: Needle
Parity: Tetris The Absolute The Grand Master 2 PLUS

In TAP, initial hard drop and initial soft drop don't get turned on
in Master 900+ or in Death 0+.  Find an appropriate rule for whether
to do initial hard drop, and document it.


bug 0078: Set random seed
Votes: Rich Nagel, colour_thief, Lardarse
Parity: FreeCell

For competition purposes, it should be possible to seed the
randomizer to a constant value.  Note that this differs from the
"power on pattern" proposal of bug 0075.


bug 0079: Customizable speedometer sample window
Votes: matt_hatter83

The speedometer uses a sliding window of 10 pieces.  Can one make it
shorter in options?


bug 0080: Portrait monitor support
Votes: PetitPrince

Skin setting to rotate the entire playfield by 90 degrees.


bug 0081: DTET rotation system
Requires: 0015
Votes: cdsboy, caffeine, fnord
Parity: DTET

Implement the rotation system of DTET, as described on the wiki.
This includes a third set of wall kick tables for each piece in each
rotation system for +180 (in addition to existing +90 and +270).


bug 0082: Paged options on PC
Votes: Cubicz
Resolution: Fixed in 0.43

Break the PC options menu into pages like it is on the handhelds.


bug 0083: Undo
Votes: Kuukunen

Press a button to take back one drop.  Useful for training.


bug 0084: Manual entry delay
Votes: Kuukunen

Pause after each piece with game displayed.  Press a button to
resume.  Useful for training.


bug 0085: Forward progress lock delay reset
Votes: zaphod77

Keep track of the lowest space that this piece has fallen to.
A floor kick should never reset lock delay, and only a net
downward movement below where it was when the lock delay was
last reset should reset lock delay.


bug 0086: Carbon Engine style lock delay reset
Parity: TOD

Carbon Engine implemented lock delay as follows:  When a piece
rotates or shifts from landed to falling, recharge one row's
worth of lock delay for each row that the piece moves down.

To implement this in Lockjaw Engine, move the piece down by
(lockDelay - stateTime).  If the piece is less than
(lockDelay - stateTime) * gravity above the shadow, only add
(y - shadowY) / gravity to stateTime.


bug 0087: Blackjack randomizer framework
Votes: Lardarse

Lardarse and tepples described a language for describing randomizers
on tetrisconcept.com's wiki.  It is called Blackjack.


bug 0088: Option for piece color
Votes: Lardarse
Requires: 0010

Once we have colors per block, add an option for piece colors,
which might replace the ljconnSRS vs. ljconnSega divide.
Skins would always be in Guideline order.

> Set by rotation system (current behavior)
  SRS
  Sega
  Dualism (formerly H&R)
  Shuffle (randomize at game start)
  Super Shuffle (randomize every piece)


bug 0089: Long debrief lines are clipped
Requires: 0031
Votes: Lardarse, kesiev
Resolution: Fixed in 0.43

The DS doesn't have a small font, so any debrief line longer than
about 48 characters will get clipped.  But in order to make this
line shorter, I need to move things around anyway.


bug 0089: Merge preliminary GNU/Linux support
Requires: 0091
Votes: kesiev
Resolution: Fixed in 0.43

kesiev wrote a patch to let Lockjaw work with separate read-only
and read-write folders, as is often the case in GNU/Linux.
Merge these changes.

<tepples>
kesiev's patch adds a function called 'turnslash' that turns '\' into
'/' in all path names.  In fact, I can use this on all platforms:
Mac and Linux use '/' as the native path separator, and the Windows
API accepts it even if some legacy command-line programs do not.

LJVorbis_close: I must have missed that line in the ov_clear
documentation.


bug 0090: Process IRS before checking for block out
Votes: Kitaru
Parity: TGM series
Resolution: Fixed in 0.43

TGM allows the player to IRS out of a block out situation.  So don't check for block out on the last frame of NEW_PIECE. Instead, check at
the end of the first frame (LJSND_SPAWN|LJSND_HOLD) of FALLING_PIECE.


bug 0091: Read-only vs. read-write directories
Votes: Ezzelin, kesiev
Resolution: Fixed in 0.43

Lockjaw for PC currently runs as a "portable application".  But it
should support being installed in the same way as any other program
for Windows or Linux.  If an empty file called "installed" is in the
same folder as argv[0], switch to installed mode.

Installed mode ignores the working directory when loading .dat,
.skin, .ini, etc.  Instead, it loads from the save data folder
($HOME/.lockjaw on Linux; %APPDATA%/Pin Eight/Lockjaw on Windows)
and then from the folder that contains argv[0].

The program would usually be installed to /opt/Lockjaw under Linux
or %ProgramFiles%/Lockjaw under Windows.


bug 0092: Option to limit IRS to 90 degrees
Votes: jujube
Parity: TGM series

Rotation limit
  90 degrees
> Unlimited (current behavior)

And make Master and Death use 90 degrees.


bug 0093: Option to disable instant shifting
Parity: TGM series

Add an option only to scenarios that limits shifting to 1G,
disallowing cheating with far left, far right, DAS=Instant.


bug 0094: World reverse
Votes: jujube
Parity: Ti

Option in Game Keys to reverse rotation directions when playing
rotation systems that start the T flat-down (SRS, TOD M4).


bug 0095: Move mouse pointer out of the way
Votes: jujube
Resolution: Fixed in 0.43

Some players navigate Lockjaw for PC entirely with the keyboard.
For these people, the mouse gets in the way after it has been used
in Replay or Skin (or, soon, Options and Game Keys).  Drop it to
the bottom of the window when the player goes to a screen that
doesn't use the mouse.


bug 0096: Allow options to "underride" skin settings
Votes: Rich Nagel

Allow the user to change shift sound scale, next piece position,
playfield position, as it was in 0.41.  The game would use the
skin setting, or the user setting only if the skin does not specify.


bug 0097: Package as Windows installer
Requires: 0091

Package the Windows executable as an installer that automatically
puts itself in %ProgramFiles%/Lockjaw.


bug 0098: Reactive speed curve and scoring
URL: http://www.jenovachen.com/flowingames/flowtheory.htm
Votes: herc

Start with zero speed.  Track the player's speed using the existing
speedometer code.  Then once the player has dropped a few pieces,
start scaling up the delays and such so that entry + (20/gravity) +
lock delay equals the average time that the player took to place 
a piece.  Then multiply all line clear scores by the current speed.


bug 0100: Import old bugs
Parity: bugzilla.mozilla.org

Bring some order to the old 'todo.txt' enhancement list.

